VideoNG article (#1353)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/blog/videong/index.md

---

> layout: 'layouts/blog-post.njk'

Reviewer: The post has great pictures but no hero image. Can one be repurposed?

## The future is now?

We've focused on how Chromium takes advantage of OS primitives to deliver a best in class playback experience.
But what about websites that want to go beyond basic video playback?
Can we offer them the same powerful primitives that Chromium itself uses to usher in the next generation of web content?

We think the answer is yes!
[Extensibility](/blog/renderingng/#extensibility-the-right-tools-for-the-job)
is at the heart of how we think about the web platform these days.
We've been working with other browsers and developers to create new technologies like
[WebGPU](https://www.w3.org/TR/webgpu/) and
[WebCodecs](https://w3c.github.io/webcodecs/)
so that web developers can use the very same primitives Chromium does when talking to the OS.
WebGPU brings support for
[GPU buffers](https://www.w3.org/TR/webgpu/#buffer-interface)
and WebCodecs brings platform decoding and encoding primitives
compatible with the aforementioned overlay and GPU buffer systems.

{% Img src="image/ZDZVuXt6QqfXtxkpXcPGfnygYjd2/lwOWWE4KOUKDFq5ixtzQ.png",
alt="Relationship between WebCodecs and WebGPU.",
width="524", height="98" %}

> ## End of Stream

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## End of stream
```

[DMA buffers](https://01.org/linuxgraphics/gfx-docs/drm/driver-api/dma-buf.html#buffer-sharing-and-synchronization).
While video playback generally doesn't need this access,
these buffers are important for video capture to ensure minimal bandwidth between the capture device and eventual encoders.

{% Img src="image/ZDZVuXt6QqfXtxkpXcPGfnygYjd2/oOERhv9vDRkFKnKSjFOf.png",
alt="Diagram of the buffers mentioned in the preceding text.",
width="580", height="420" %}

Since the GPU is often responsible for both decoding and displaying,
the use of these (also often) opaque buffers ensures that high bandwidth video data never actually leaves the GPU.
As we discussed earlier,
keeping data on the GPU is incredibly important for efficiency;
especially at high resolutions and frame rates.

The more we can take advantage of OS primitives like overlays and GPU buffers,
the less bandwidth is spent shuffling video bytes around unnecessarily.
Keeping everything in one place from decoding all the way to rendering can lead to incredible power efficiency.
For example, when Chromium
[enabled overlays](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=594449) on macOS,

> power consumption during video playback was halved!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
power consumption during fullscreen video playback was halved!
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On Windows and ChromeOS, hardware overlays (through [swap chains](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/direct3d9/what-is-a-swap-chain-) on Windows and an equivalent concept on ChromeOS) can be used on some devices to bypass Chrome’s compositor and the OS compositor, leading to much less overhead from copying and drawing. This can save up to 50% of battery drain when playing videos. 
```

> 

Reviewer 3: On other platforms like [Windows](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=678800), [Android](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=889328) and [ChromeOS](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=370522), we can use overlays even in non-fullscreen cases, saving up to 50% nearly everywhere.

---
layout: 'layouts/blog-post.njk'
title: 'Deep-dive: VideoNG'
description: >
  Learn about modern playback systems and how Chromium powers several hundred million hours of watch time every day.
date: 2021-09-10
thumbnail: 'image/ZDZVuXt6QqfXtxkpXcPGfnygYjd2/f3QXPzlrvld8AowYWoLM.jpg'
alt: 'Bytes flowing in, and structured packets flowing out.'
authors:
  - dalecurtis
tags:
  - rendering
---
{% Aside %}

> This post is a part of a series on the Chromium rendering engine. Check out the rest of the series to learn more about [RenderingNG](/renderingng), [the architecture](/blog/renderingng-architecture/), and [key data structures](/blog/renderingng-data-structures/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This post is a part of a series on the Chromium rendering engine. Check out the rest of the series to learn more about [RenderingNG](/blog/renderingng), [the architecture](/blog/renderingng-architecture/), and [key data structures](/blog/renderingng-data-structures/).
```

Each rendered audio frame advances a clock which is used to choose video frames
for rendering when combined with a presentation interval.

On each presentation interval (each
[refresh](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Refresh_rate) of the display),
the video renderer is asked to provide a video frame by a
[CompositorFrameSink](https://source.chromium.org/chromium/chromium/src/+/main:services/viz/public/mojom/compositing/compositor_frame_sink.mojom;l=26;drc=eae24aa28b1f099f28431612963d39bafd0e4213)
attached to the
[SurfaceLayer](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/refs/heads/main/docs/how_cc_works.md#SurfaceLayer) mentioned earlier.
For content with a
[frame rate](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frame_rate) less than the display rate,
that means showing the same frame more than once,
while if the frame rate is greater than the display rate, some frames are never shown.

There's much more to synchronizing audio and video in ways that are pleasing to viewers.
See [Project Butter](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oUb_ap0TAa1sDci0wEQ6BEzd_lB7Eghv93NXyZ3952E/preview)
for a longer discussion on how optimal video smoothness is accomplished in Chromium.

> The tl;dr version is that video rendering can be broken down into ideal sequences representing how many times each frame should be shown.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It explains how video rendering can be broken down into ideal sequences representing how many times each frame should be shown.
```

> For example: "1 frame every display interval ([1], 60fps in 60Hz)",
> "1 frame every two intervals ([2], 30fps in 60Hz)",
> or more complicated patterns like [2:3:2:3:2] (25fps in 60Hz)
> covering multiple distinct frames and display intervals.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example: "1 frame every display interval ([1], 60&nbsp;fps in 60&nbsp;Hz)",
"1 frame every 2 intervals ([2], 30&nbsp;fps in 60&nbsp;Hz)",
or more complicated patterns like [2:3:2:3:2] (25&nbsp;fps in 60&nbsp;Hz)
covering multiple distinct frames and display intervals.
```
